Edema means swelling from fluid
that accumulates and is trapped
in your body’s tissues.
Edema most commonly occurs in the feet,
ankles, and legs but any part of
the body can be affected.
The tissues of your body
are made up of cells held
together by connective tissue.
The space between cells that
contain connective tissue and
tiny blood vessels is called the interstitium.
The fluids in your body that are not
inside cells are usually stored in your blood vessels
and what are called the interstitial spaces,
meaning not inside cells.
Edema occurs when the tiny blood vessels
or capillaries leak fluid
into the surrounding tissue spaces.
When the interstitial spaces fill with fluid,
they expand and the area swells.
There are two kinds of edema.
In the type called pitting edema,
applying pressure to the swollen area
causes an indentation that persists
after the pressure is released.
In non-pitting edema,
there is no persistent indentation
after pressure is applied.